README.md, before:

BookHero
========

## eBook web library

eBook library written in Ruby (Rails) using Google Books API for metadata information.

I had the need for a web based eBook manager, that can run on my home server, from where I can
browse my library from any of my devices(ipad, macbook, android phone etc.).

At the moment the core basic features work
* Listing books
* Able to download books
* Remove books from library (only remove in BookHero)
* Scan for new books

Got a couple of more features planned, but that's it for now.

![Main Window](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/main.png)

![Book Description](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/main_description.png)


Using Zurb Foundation responsive css design BookHero works on most mobile devices. 

![iPhone](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/iphone.png)

![iPhone Book Description](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/iphone_description.png)


## Installation 

Git clone the repository
cd  to BookHero directory and run the
    StartBookHero --firsttime
command.
This will setup BookHero for it's first startup and then start it.

## Usage

## Issues

Google API usage

Commit message:

Working on README and BookHero script

README.md, after:

BookHero
========

## eBook web library

eBook library written in Ruby (Rails) using Google Books API for metadata information.

I had the need for a web based eBook manager, that can run on my home server, from where I can
browse my library from any of my devices(ipad, macbook, android phone etc.).

At the moment the core basic features work
* Listing books
* Able to download books
* Remove books from library (only remove in BookHero)
* Scan for new books

Got a couple of more features planned, but that's it for now.

![Main Window](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/main.png)

![Book Description](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/main_description.png)


Using Zurb Foundation responsive css design BookHero works on most mobile devices. 

![iPhone](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/iphone.png)

![iPhone Book Description](https://raw.github.com/daemonza/BookHero/master/screenshots/iphone_description.png)


## Installation 

First thing, you need Ruby and Rails working to run BookHero. Have a look at
https://rvm.io/rvm/install/
to setup it up. Basically you need to run the following command :

        curl -#L https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable --autolibs=3 --ruby

Git clone the repository
cd  to BookHero directory and run the

        BookHero --firsttime

command.
This will setup BookHero for it's first startup and then start it.

## Usage

To start BookHero run :

        BookHero --start

To stop BookHero run :

        BookHero --stop

## Issues

BookHero use the Google Books API to get all the information about the books in the library. Google limits
you to 1000 API requests a day. Which normally would not be a issue on a day to day basis, however if you have
a ebook colleciton that's bigger than 1000, your going to hit the google limit during import. Busy looking at
a way to get around it.

It's tested on OS X (mountain lion), should work on any Linux/UNIX with Ruby/Rails enviroument. Things to look out
for might be the stop command of the BookHero script.
